---
title: 'My Journey'
date: 2021-12-19
permalink: /posts/2021/12/my-journey/
tags:
  - my story
---

Hello. Welcome to my website. 

Winding up in a data science career is both expected and a surprise to me. Let me explain. 

During grammar school and high school, I was always good at math, scoring well in the most advaced courses offered, and quickly picked up what little coding I was exposed to. When I learned HTML (in the 1990s), I was so fascinated that a few lines of code could allow me to communicate with seemingly the entire world. I hoped to have a career as a Webmaster. 

I started college with plans to major in Computer Science. Unfortunately, my first class didn't go well, and I was both bored an intimidated by the thought of continuing that coruse of study and whatever subsequent careeer it would lead to. I envisioned myself as someone who should have an impressive, glamorous career. I switched my major to Communication with the hope of working in Public Relations. 

As I learned quickly after graduation, not every job in PR in glamorous. In fact, the majority of PR jobs are in pretty unglamorous industries, communicating pretty boring messages. I also realized I didn't enjoy writing or public speaking, or really anything that was a necessary task in PR or marketing communication. 

However, I had no idea what else to do. I tried taking some classes in the hopes of figuring out a better career path. I took graphic design but had similar feelings as I did writing. I took Calculus, refreshing what I learned in college. I greatly enjoyed it, and considered a career in engineering, but wasn't sure I wanted to start over from square one with a second bachelors in civil engingeering. 

I transitioned to digital marketing, and with that came some data analysis, which I greatly enjoyed. I learned as much as I could on the job so that I could use what little data was available to me in the most effective way possible. That was recognized, and eventually, during a team reorganization, I was moved into a role focused 100% on marketing analytics. 

Luckily, I was working under someone experience in that area, who could start to expose me to (and teach me) what I didn't know about the world of analytics, statistics, and programs like R. I was fascinated with everything and wanted to learn more. I quickly realized I was much more excited by this type of owrk than I ever was about PR or marketing. 

Eventually, I realized if I wanted to move up in the area of analytics, I had a lot of skill gaps to cover. A liberal arts degree focused on Communication does not prepare one for quantitative analysis. To that end, I enrolled in a Masters of Data Science program, which continuing to work full-time. 
